# About Dapper

<div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

Dapper is a digital wallet and platform for managing and interacting
with blockchain-based assets. It was created by the same company that
developed CryptoKitties and NBA Top Shot, Dapper Labs.

<div>

The Dapper wallet is designed to make it easy for users to store,
manage, and use their blockchain-based assets, such as cryptocurrencies
and non-fungible tokens (NFTs). It has a simple, user-friendly interface
that allows users to buy, sell, and trade assets, as well as participate
in decentralized applications (dApps).

</div>

<div>

One of the key features of Dapper is its integration with a number of
popular dApps, including CryptoKitties and NBA Top Shot. This allows
users to seamlessly interact with these applications and manage their
assets within the Dapper wallet.

</div>

<div>

Dapper is also focused on providing a secure and trustworthy platform
for users, with a strong emphasis on protecting user privacy and
preventing fraud. Overall, Dapper is an innovative platform that is
helping to make blockchain-based assets more accessible and
user-friendly.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

### Dapper\'s core services

<div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸ‘›

</div>

<div>

**Dapper Wallet** Dapper enables custody of Tokens and NFTs, and allows
users to view and share their collections across the Flow Community with
ease.

</div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸ’³

</div>

<div>

**Dapper Pay** Dapper provides robust payment options for its partners,
including traditional methods such as debit / credit card payments and
bank transfers (ACH), as well as various cryptocurrency choices.

</div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸ§˜

</div>

<div>

**Dapper Identity** Dapper's simple and secure sign up process includes
multi-factor authentication so our partners\' community members always
sign up quickly and safely.

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

## Dapper's unique values

<div>

**Global payment options**

</div>

<div>

Wide range of options include Credit Cards, ACH, Wire, and Crypto. More
than \$1B transacted and counting.

</div>

<div>

**Streamlined identity and authentication**

</div>

<div>

Optimized onboarding process, and cutting edge identity verification and
authentication service.

</div>

<div>

**Advanced security and trust**

</div>

<div>

Robust account protection and fast, secure withdrawals for the entire
community.

</div>

<div>

**Growth marketing opportunities**

</div>

<div>

Tailored co-marketing campaigns to drive traffic, engagement, and
conversions.

</div>

### Marketing

<div>

<div>

ðŸ“£

</div>

<div>

**Planning Marketing comms?** Check out the **Dapper Media Kit**

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸ‘‹

</div>

<div>
