

# Deploying a Flow Contract

<div>

</div>

<div>

In the Beginner Sample App tutorial, the contract has already been
deployed and added to the Dapper Platform. However, if you want to
deploy your own contracts, you will need to go through the following
steps. We will use the MonsterMaker contract for the example, which you
can deploy to your own address and use for your own dApp. These same
steps apply for any contracts that you are deploying.

</div>

1.  Ensure that you have `flow` installed on your system. You can follow
    the instructions here.
2.  Create a public and private key pair for the desired flow
    environment (testnet/mainnet)

<div>

    flow keys generate --network=testnet

</div>

<div>

This will generate a public/private key pair that will be used to create
an account:

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

3. Sign in to flowport with your desired wallet. Flow port will allow
you to create an account that you can use to deploy your contracts:

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

This will bring you to a dashboard display. Click on "Advanced" in the
lower left:

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

4. Click on "Advanced" and then "Create New Account"

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

5. Paste your public key that was generated by `flow` in the terminal in
the first field, and leave the other fields as defaults. Click Submit:

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

6. When the transaction completes, scroll to the events section and look
for the `flow.AccountCreated` type. Copy the `address` value. This is
the address of your account and will be needed to deploying the
contract.

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

7. Next we will need to use `flow` to deploy the contract to our newly
created account. Go back to the terminal, and create a directory you
will use for the deployment (e.g. deploy-monster-maker). Switch to that
directory and type `flow init`:

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

8. This will create a default flow.json file that we will use to
configure the deployment. Open flow.json in an editor such as VSCode:

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

9. Add your contract to this directory. For this example we will add the
MonsterMaker contract. Note that the addresses for the
`NonFungibleToken` and the `MetadataViews` refer to testnet addresses,
since that is where we are deploying to:

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

10. Add the contract to the config and a section called
"testnet-account" as below, adding the address generated from the
account in flowport from step #6, and the private key generated in step
#2. Note that the values of the testnet-account all match the values
that were used when creating the account in flowport:

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

11. In order to deploy the contract, some flow is required to cover the
cost of the transaction, and you will need to transfer some flow to your
newly created account. Go to the Balances page on flowport:

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

12. Click "Send" and paste in the address of you *Account (the address
generated in step #6)*:

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

13. Go back to your terminal and execute the command

</div>

<div>

    flow project deploy --network=testnet

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

You should see the contract deployed successfully after a few seconds.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

14. Validate the successful contract deployment by going to
flow-view-source, and entering the account address:

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

You should see the contract deployed as below:

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

15. Go back to the Dapper Developer Dashboard and you can follow the
steps outlined In the "Adding an App to Dapper Platform" Section to add
your contract to your app.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

👋

</div>

<div>
