
# Quickstart

<div>

**Interested in launching a web3 app today?** We've partnered up with
Niftory so that you can build, test, and deploy with no coding required.
Copy this Github Repo to get started now.

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸ“ƒ

</div>

<div>

https://github.com/onflow/monster-maker/tree/main/experimental/niftory-example

</div>

</div>

## Welcome to Dapper!

<div>

We are excited to partner with you in bringing the exciting world of
Web3 to a mainstream audience! This guide will help you get up and
running quickly on the Dapper Platform and understand the steps
involved. There are 3 key steps that we will walk through here:

<div>

<div>

**Step 1:** Deploying Contracts and custom transactions to the Flow
Blockchain

</div>

<div>

**Step 2:** Submitting Contracts to the NFT Catalog and generating
standardized transactions

</div>

<div>

**Step 3:** Submitting your Contracts and Transactions to the Dapper
Developer Portal

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

We have two environments Staging/Testnet and Production/Mainnet.

</div>

<div>

Testnet is where you build and test your applications, and Mainnet is
where you launch them. Once your application is working as expected on
Testnet, you will repeat the process to submit your application for
Mainnet.

</div>

<div>

The following diagram provides an overview of the various environments
involved in deployment:

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

## Step 1: Deploy Your Contracts to Testnet

<div>

Follow the guide for Adding Contracts to Your Flow Account in order to
deploy your NFT Contract to your Flow Account.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸ’¡

</div>

<div>

The Flow test network, known as Flow Testnet, exists to help developers
test their software and smart contracts against a live network. It\'s
also used as a means of releasing and testing new protocols and smart
contract features before they are integrated into Flow\'s main network
(Mainnet).

</div>

</div>

## Step 2: Submit your NFT Collection to the Flow NFTCatalog 

<div>

Once your contracts are deployed to Testnet, submit your contracts to
the Flow NFTCatalog. You can follow the Submitting a Collection to
NFTCatalog guide.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸ’¡

</div>

<div>

TheÂ Flow NFT Catalog is an on-chain catalog of NFTs in the Flow
ecosystem that provides needed context to applications and marketplaces
to utilize your NFT collection and unlock interoperability throughout
the Flow ecosystem. It does this by enforcing the implementation of
certain interfaces and conveniently generates transactions that follow
the latest standards. These transactions can be directly uploaded to
Dapper Platform and contracts imported from the NFTCatalog can be auto
approved.

</div>

</div>

## Step 3: Submit your Application to the Dapper Developer Portal

<div>

1. Access the Developers Portal in staging. This is your dashboard for
managing your apps and contracts on the Dapper Platform.

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

2. From the Developers Dashboard, create a new app:

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

3. Provide the required application details

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

4. Add your Contracts

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

5. Add your Transactions

<div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

6. Submit your App for Review

<div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

The approval process is carried out by Solution Engineers at Dapper Labs
to ensure the security of the transactions, and takes 2 - 3 business
days for review.

</div>

<div>

You application status can be in the following states:

</div>

-   **Draft:** Your Application details will be autosaved and will be in
    a draft state until you submit for review.
-   **In Review:** This is the status your transaction will be in after
    you have submitted it, and until it has been approved.
-   **Live:** This means your transaction is whitelisted and ready to be
    used in your app.
-   **Rejected:** This means your transaction is rejected due to
    security issues. Reach out to your account manager for further
    assistance.

<div>

Once your application is submitted, it is available on the staging
environment of Dapper Platform and Testnet.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸ‘‰

</div>

<div>

Note that only Purchase transactions require review in staging. All
non-purchase transactions will be immediately invokable on Dapper Wallet
once your app is submitted.

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

You can easily add new contracts/transactions and update your existing
transactions as you test and debug your app. For an in-depth tutorial of
working with your app on the Dapper Platform, follow the Developing for
the Dapper Platform Guide.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸŽ‰

</div>

<div>

Congratulations! Now that you have submitted your contracts and
transactions to the Dapper Platform, you start building your client to
interact with your contracts via Dapper Wallet.

</div>

</div>

## Building You Application Web Client

<div>

Now that your contracts are deployed on Testnet and submitted to the
Dapper Platform, you can build an application that leverages these
contracts. This requires invoking your transactions on FLOW via the Flow
Client Library (FCL), which can either be done directly on the client,
or through back-end APIs on behalf of the client.

</div>

<div>

To learn more, follow our Technical Guide.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸ‘‰

</div>

<div>

For a walkthrough of creating your first web app for Dapper Platform,
checkout the Building for Web on Dapper tutorial.

</div>

</div>

## **Publishing to Mainnet** 

<div>

Once your Application is approved on Testnet, you will need to repeat
the process for the Production Developer Portal. Once approval is
completed, your transactions will be will be invokable on Mainnet via
Dapper Wallet.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸ‘‹

</div>

<div>
