
# User Experience Guide

<div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

Learn about how to support recommended patterns for user flows.

</div>

</div>

# User Flows

## Account creation flow

### Creating an account

<div>

When users create an account, the Dapper signup and login screens appear
as a pop-up (640px \* 760px). Users can create their account with both
an email and password and Google authentication. There is no email
verification or MFA required for setting up an account.

</div>

<div>

When creating a call-to-action button, we recommend using clear language
such as "sign up" or "log in" rather than "start" to avoid confusion.
Users without a Dapper account need to create one before they can
purchase an NFT. We recommend using "Dapper" in your call-to-action so
the pop-up doesn\'t surprise users.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

### Initiating the account

<div>

The Initiate Dapper account screen appears as a pop-up. Users will need
to initiate their Dapper account for your specific dApp before they make
their first purchase (this is a one-time requirement).

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

## Checkout flow

### Checking out

<div>

When a user makes a purchase, the Dapper checkout window appears in a
pop-up. Acceptable payment methods are Dapper Balance, credit cards, and
cryptocurrencies. We recommend payments in that order for the follow
reasons:

</div>

-   If the value of the item is less than their current Dapper Balance,
    then the Dapper Balance is the recommended payment method.
-   If the value of the item is less than \$2,000 USD, then a credit
    card is the recommended payment method.
-   Crypto payments are not yet supported with Flow Client Library).
    Users can purchase Dapper Balance with crypto (in the Dapper account
    app) and then used that increased Dapper Balance on 3rd party
    marketplaces.

<div>

</div>

### Post-checkout

<div>

The Dapper checkout window will close automatically after a purchase is
completed. Auto-close is also fine. We strongly recommend a "Purchase
Confirmation" or "Summary" screen to give users confirmation of their
purchase.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

## Transaction signing flow

### Signing transactions

<div>

The Dapper transaction screen appears as a pop-up. Dapper supports
listings for NFTs for sale and the removal of listings. Dapper provides
the following metadata to the user so that is always clear what NFT they
are putting up for sale:

</div>

-   NFT name
-   NFT image
-   Listing price
-   A brief description

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

## Navigating to Dapper flow

### Clear PATH/CTA to account app

<div>

Purchases and sales are recorded in the Dapper account app on the home
page. Detailed information like payment method, date/time, and fees are
provided.

</div>

<div>

</div>

# Dapper Account App

## Activity History

<div>

Purchases and sales are recorded in the Dapper account app on the home
page. Detailed information like payment method, date/time, and fees are
provided.

</div>

<div>

</div>

## NFT inventory

<div>

The NFL inventory houses all NFTs purchased with Dapper. Clicking on
each tile will reveal additional details about each NFT.

</div>

<div>

</div>

# Resources

## Logos

<div>

Below are some examples of how 3rd party logos are featured in Dapper.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

## Sample marketing assets

<div>

Below are some examples of marketing assets you can leverage. Please
contact your account manager for more information.

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div>

<div>

ðŸ‘‹

</div>

<div>
